Let's talk about how AWS implement security for servers.
Typically, when you create resources,
they are on a flat network that is shared among various AWS users,
such as EC2 classic.
A flat network is a simple network design that reduces cost and overall administration.
All devices and workstations are connected to a single switch.
Meaning all devices are a part of
the same broadcast network and communicate with each other.
Virtual private cloud or VPC allows you to create
your own private space or private network in the cloud.
Then you launch your services like EC2 inside of that private network,
and EC2 inherits security.
This is done as a security measure.
We control the network configuration and security and expose what we do
or do not want exposed to the Internet using public or private subnets.
VPC lives within a region and can span across multiple ECs.